# Sociotechnical systems

## Objectives

The objectives of this chapter are to introduce the concept of a sociotechnical system - a system that includes people, software, and hardware - and to show that you need to take a systems perspective on security and dependability. When you have read this chapter, you will:

- know what is meant by a sociotechnical system and understand the difference between a technical, computer-based system and a sociotechnical system;
- have been introduced to the concept of emergent system properties, such as reliablity, performance, safety, and security;
- know about the procurement, development, and operational activities that are involved in the systems engineering process;
- understand why software dependability and security should not be considered in isolation and how they are affected by systems issues, such as operator errors.

## KEY POINTS

- Sociotechnical systems include computer hardware, software, and people, and are situated within an organization. They are designed to support organizational or business goals and objectives.
- Human and organizational factors such as organizational structure and politics have significant effect on the operation of sociotechnical systems.
- The emergent properties of a system are characteristics of the system as a whole rather than of its component parts. They include properties such as performance, reliability, usability, safety, and security. The success or failure of a system is often dependent on these emergent properties.
- The fundamental systems engineering processes are system procurement, system development, and system operation.
- System procurement covers all of the activities involved in deciding what system to buy and who should supply that system. High-level requirements are developed as part of the procurement process.
- System development includes requirements specification, design, construction, integration, and testing. System integration, where subsystems from more than one supplier must be made to work together, is particularly critical.
- When a system is put into use, the operational processes and the system itself have to change to reflect changing business requirements.
- Human errors are inevitable and systems should include barriers to detect these errors before they lead to system failure. Reason's Swiss cheese model explains how human error plus latent defects in the barriers can lead to system failure.