# Dependability and security

## Objectives

The objective of this chapter is to introduce software dependability and security. When you have read this chapter, you will:

- understand why dependability and security are usually more important than the functional characteristics of a software system;
- understand the four principal dimensions of dependability, namely availability, reliability, safety, and security;
- be aware of the specialized terminology that is used when discussing security and dependability;
- understand that to achieve secure, dependable software, you need to avoid mistakes during the development of a system, to detect and remove errors when the system is in use, and to limit the damage caused by operational failures.

## KEY POINTS

- Failure of critical computer systems can lead to large economic losses, serious information loss, physical damage, or threats to human life.
- The dependability of a computer system is a system property that reflects the user's degree of trust in the system. The most important dimensions of dependability are availability, reliability, safety, and security.
- The availability of a system is the probability that the system will be able deliver services to its users when requested to do so. Reliability is the probability that system services will be delivered as specified.
- Perceived reliability is realted to the probability of an error occurring in operational use. A program may contain known faults but may still be experienced as reliable by its users They may never use features of the system that are affected by the faults.
- The safety of a system is a system attribute that reflects the system's ability to operate, normally or abnormally, without injury to people or damage to the environment.
- Security reflects the ability of a system to protect itself against external attacks. Security failures may lead to loss of availability, damage to the system or its data, or the leakage of information to unauthorized people.
- Without a reasonable level of security, the reliabilty, and safety of the system may be compromised if external attacks damage the system. If a system is unreliable, it is difficult to ensure system safety or security, as they may be compromised by system failures.