# Dependability and security specification

## Objectives

The objective of this chapter is explain how to specify functional and non-functional dependability and security requirements. When you have read this chapter, you will:

- understand how a risk-driven approach can be used for identifying and analyzing safety, reliability, and security requirements;
- understand how faults trees can be used to help analyze risks and derive safety requirements;
- have been introduced to metrics for reliability specification and how these are used to specify measurable reliability requirements;
- know the different types of security requirements that may be required in a complex system;
- be aware of the advantages and disadvantages of using formal mathematical specifications of a system.

## KEY POINTS

- Risk analysis is an important activity in the specification of security and dependability requirements. It involves identifying risks that can result in accidents or incidents. System requirement requirements are then generated to ensure that these risks do not occur and, if they do, that they do not lead to an incident or accident.
- A hazard-driven approach may be used to understand the safety requirements for a system. You identify potential hazards and decompose these (using methods such as fault tree analysis) to discover their root causes. You then specify requirements to avoid or recover from these problems.
- Reliability requirements can be defined quantitatively in the system requirements specification. Reliability metrics include probability of failure on demand (POFOD), rate of occurrence of failure (ROCOF), and availability (AVAIL).
- It is important not to overspecify the required system reliability as this leads to unnecessary additional costs in the development and validation processes.
- Security requirements are more difficult to identify than safety requirements because a system attacker can use knowledge of system vulnerabilities to plan a system attack, and can learn about vulnerabilities from unsuccessful attacks.
- To specify security requirements, you should identify the assets that are to be protected and define how security techniques and technology should be used to protect these assets.
- Formal methods of software development rely on a system specification that is expressed as a mathematical model. Developing a formal specification has the key benefit of stimulating a detailed examination and analysis of the system requirements.