# Dependability engineering

## Objectives

The objective of this chapter is to discuss processes and techniques for developing highly dependable systems. When you have read this chapter you will:

- understand how system dependability can be achieved by using redundant and diverse components;
- know how dependable software processes contribute to the development of dependable software;
- understand how different architectural styles may be used to implement software redundancy and diversity;
- be aware of good programming practice that should be used in dependable system engineering.

## KEY POINTS

- Dependability in a program can be achieved by avoiding the introduction of faults, by detecting and removing faults before system development, and by including fault-tolerance facilities that allow the system to remain operational after a fault has caused a system failure.
- The use of redundancy and diversity in hardware, software processes, and software systems is essential to the development of dependable systems.
- The use of a well-defined, repeatable process is essential if faults in a system are to be minimized. The process should include verification and validation activities at all stages, from requirements definition through to system implementation.
- Dependable system architectures are system architectures that are designed for fault tolerance. There are a number of architectural styles that support fault tolerance including protection systems, self-monitoring architectures, and N-version programming.
- Software diversity is difficult to achieve because it is practically impossible to ensure that each version of the software is truly independent.
- Dependable programming relies on the inclusion of redundancy in a program to check the validity of inputs and the values of program variables.
- Some programming constructs and techniques, such as go-to statements, pointers, recursion, inheritance, and floating-point numbers, are inherently error prone. You should try to avoid these constructs when developing dependable systems.