# Security engineering

## Objectives

The objective of this chapter is to introduce issues that should be considered when you are designing secure application systems. When you have read this chapter, you will:

- understand the difference between application security and infrastructure security;
- know how life-cycle risk assessment and operational risk assessment are used to understand security issues that affect a system design;
- be aware of software architectures and design guidelines for secure systems development;
- understand the notion of system survivability and why survivability analysis is important for complex software systems.

## KEY POINTS

- Security engineering focuses on how to develop and maintain software systems that can resist malicious attacks intended to damage a computer-based system or its data.
- Security threats can be threats ot the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of a system or its data.
- Security risk management involves assessing the losses that might ensue from attacks on a system, and deriving security requirements that are aimed at eliminating or reducing these losses.
- Design for security involves designing a secure system architecture, following good practice for secure systems design, and including functionality to minimize the possibility of introducing vulnerabilities when the system is deployed.
- Key issues when designing a secure systems architecture include organizing the system structure to protect key assets and distributing the system assets to minimize the losses from a successful attack.
- Security design guidelines sensitize system designers to security issues that they may not have considered. They provide a basis for creating security review checklists.
- To support secure deployment you should provide a way of displaying and analyzing system configurations, localize configuration settings so that important configurations are not forgotten, minimize default privileges assigned to system users, and provide ways to repair security vulnerabilities.
- System survivability reflects the ability of a system to continue to deliver essential business or mission-critical services to legitimate users while it is under attack, or after part of the system has been damaged.