# Dependability and security assurance

## Objectives

The objective of this chapter is to describe the verification and validation techniques that are used in the development of critical systems. When you have read this chapter, you will:

- understand how different approaches to static analysis may be used in the verification of critical software systems;
- understand the basics of reliability and security testing and the inherent problems of testing critical systems;
- know why process assurance is important, especially for software that has to be certified by a regulator;
- have been introduced to safety and dependability cases that present arguments and evidence of system safety and dependability.

## KEY POINTS

- Static analysis is an approach to V & V that examines the source code (or other representation) of a system, looking for errors and anomalies. It allows all parts of a program to be checked, not just those parts that are exercised by system tests.
- Model checking is a formal approach to static analysis that exhaustively checks all states in a system for potential errors.
- Statistical testing is used to estimate software reliability. It relies on testing the system with a test data set that reflects the operational profile of the software. Test data may be generated automatically.
- Security validation is difficult because requirements state what should not happen in a system, rather that what should. Furthermore, system attackers are intelligent and may have more time to probe for weaknesses than is available for security testing.
- Security validation may be carried out using experience-based analysis, tool-based analysis, or 'tiger teams' that simulate attacks on a system.
- It is important to have a well-defined, certified process for safety-critical systems development. The process must include the identification and monitoring of potential hazards.
- Safety and dependability cases collect all of the evidence that demonstrates a system is safe and dependable. Safety cases are required when an external regulator must certify the system before it is used.
- Safety cases are usually based on structured arguments. Structured safety arguments show that an identified hazardous condition can never occur by considering all program paths that lead to an unsafe condition, and showing that the condition cannot hold.