# Dependability and Security

As software systems increase in size and complexity, I strongly believe that the most significant challenge that we face in software engineering is ensuring that we can trust these systems. To trust a system, we must have confidence that it will be available when required and perform as expected. It must be secure so that our computers or data are not threatened by it. This means that issues of system dependability and security are often more important than the details of system functionality. This part of the book has therefore been designed to introduce students and practising software engineers to the important topics of dependability and security.

The first chapter in this section, Chapter 10, covers sociotechnical systems, which at first sight, may not appear to have much to do with software dependability. However, many security and dependability failures stem from human and organizational causes and we cannot ignore these when considering system dependability and security. Software engineers must be aware of this and should not imagine that better techniques and technology can ensure that our systems are completely dependable and secure.

Chapter 11 introduces the basic concepts of dependability and security and explains the fundamental principles of avoidance, detection, and recovery that are used to build dependable systems. Chapter 12 supplements Chapter 4, which covers requirements engineering, with a discussion of specific approaches that are used for deriving and specifying system requirements for security and dependability. I briefly introduce the use of formal specification in Chapter 12, and an addition chapter on this topic is available on the Web.

Chapters 13 and 14 are concerned with software engineering techniques for the development of dependable and secure systems. I cover dependability engineering and security engineering separately, but they have much in common. I discuss the importance of software architectures and present design guidelines and programming techniques that help achieve dependability and security. I also explain why it is important to use redundancy and diversity to ensure that systems can cope with failures and external attacks. I introduce the increasingly important topic of software surviavbility or resilience, which allows systems to continue to deliver essential services while security is being threatend.

Finally, in this section, Chapter 15 is concerned with dependability and security assurance. I explain the use of static analysis and model checking for system verification and fault detection. These techniques have been successfully used in critical systems engineering. I also cover specific approaches to testing the dependability and security of systems and explain why a dependability case may be necessary to convince an external regulator that a system is safe and secure.