# Software processes

## Objectives

The objective of this chapter is to introduce you to the idea of a software process - a coherent set of activities for software production. When you have read this chapter you will:

- understand the concepts of software processes and software process models;
- have been introduced to three generic software process models and when they might be used;
- know about the fundamental process activities of software requirements engineering, software development, testing, and evolution;
- understand why processes should be organized to copy with changes in the software requirements and design;
- understand how the Rational Unified Process integrates good software engineering practice to create adaptable software processes.

## KEY POINTS

- Software processes are the activities involved in producing a software system. Software process models are abstract representations of these processes.
- General process model describe the organization of software processes. Examples of these general models include the waterfall model, incremental development, and reuse-oriented development.
- Requirements engineering is the process of developing a software specification. Specifications are intended to communicate the system needs of the customer to the system developers.
- Design and implementation processes are concerned with transforming a requirements specification into an executable software system. Systematic design methods may be used as part of this transformation.
- Software validation is the process of checking that the system conforms to its specification and that it meets the real needs of the users of the system.
- Software evolution takes place when you change existing softwares to meet new requirements. Changes are continuous and the software must evolve to remain useful.
- Processes should include activities to copy with change. This may involve to remain useful.
- Processes should include activities to cope with change. This may involve a prototyping phase that helps avoid poor decisions on requirements and design. Processes may be structured for iterative development and delivery so that changes may be made without disrupting the system as a whole.
- The Rational Unified Process is a modern generic process model that is organized into phases (inception, elaboration, construction, and transition) but separates activities (requirements, analysis, and design, etc.) from these phases.

## Topics covered

- Software process models
- Process activities
- Coping with change
- Process improvement

## The software process

- A structured set of activities required to develop a software system.
- Many different software processes but all involve:
    - Specification - defining what the system should do;
    - Design and implementation - defining the organization of the system and implementing the system;
    - Validation - checking that it does what the customer wants;
    - Evolution - changing the system in response to changing customer needs.
- A software process model is an abstract representation of a process. It presents a description of a process from some particular perspective.