# Agile software development

## Objectives

The objective of this chapter is to introduce you to agile software development methods. When you have read the chapter, you will:

- understand the rational for agile software development methods, the agile manifesto, and the differences between agile and plan-driven development;
- know the key practices in extreme programming and how these relate to general principles of agile methods;
- understand the Scrum approach to agile project management;
- be aware of the issues and problems of scaling agile development methods to the development of large software systems.

## KEY POINTS

- Agile methods are incremental development methods that focus on rapid development, frequent releases of the software, reducing process overheads, and producing high-quality code. They involve the customer directly in the development process.
- The decision on whether to use an agile or a plan-driven approach to development should depend on the type of software being developed. the capabilities of the development team and the culture of the company developing the system.
- Extreme programming is a well-known agile method that integrates a range of good programming practices such as frequent releases of the software, continuous software improvement, and customer participation in the development team.
- A particular strenth of extreme programming is the development of automated tests before a program feature is created. All tests must successfully execute when an increment is integrated into a system.
- The Scrum method is an agile method that provides a project management framework. It is centered around a set of sprints, which are fixed time periods when a system increment is developed. Planning is based on prioritizing a backlog of work and selecting the highest-priority tasks for a sprint.
- Scaling agile methods for large systems is difficult. Large systems need up-front design and some documentation. Continuous integration is practically impossible when there are several separate development teams working on a project.