# Requirements engineering

## Objectives

The objective of this chapter is to introduce software requirements and to discuss the processes involved in discovering and documenting these requirements. When you have read the chapter you will:

- understand the concepts of user and system requirements and why these requirements should be written in different ways;
- understand the differences between functional and nonfunctional software requirements;
- understand how requirements may be organized in a software requirements document;
- understand the principal requirements engineering activities of elicitation, analysis and validation, and the relationships between these activities;
- understand why requirements management is necessary and how it supports other requirements engineering activities.

## KEY POINTS

- Requirements for a software system set out what the system should do and define constraints on its operation and implementation.
- Functional requirements are statements of the services that the system must provide or are descriptions of how some computations must be carried out.
- Non-functional requirements often constrain the system being developed and the development process being used. These might be product requirements, organizational requirements, or external requirements. They often relate to the emergent properties of the system and therefore apply to the system as a whole.
- The software requirements document is an agreed statement of the system requirements. It should be organized so that both system customers and software developers can use it.
- The requirements engineering process includes a feasibility study, requirements elicitation and analysis, requirements specification, requirements validation, and requirements management.
- Requirements eliciation and analysis is an iterative process that can be represented as a spiral of activities - requirements discovery, requirements classification an organization, requirements negotiation, and requirements documentation.
- Requirements validation is the process of checking the requirements for validity, consistency, conpleteness, realism, and verifiability.
- Business, organizational, and technical changes inevitably lead to changes to the requirements for a software system. Requirements management if the process of managing and controlling these changes.