# System modeling

## Objectives

The aim of this chapter if to introduce some types of system model that may be developed as part of the requirements engineering and system design processes. When you have read the chapter, you will:

- understand how graphical models can be used to represent software systems;
- understand why different types of model are required and the fundamental system modeling perspectives of context, interaction, structure, and behavior;
- have been introduced to some of the diagram types in the Unified Modeling Language (UML) and how these diagrams may be used in system modeling;
- be aware of the ideas underlying model-driven engineering, where a system is automatically generated from structural and behavioral models.

## KEY POINTS

- A model is an abstract view of a system that ignores some system details. Complementary system models can be developed to show the system's context, interactions, structure, and behavior.
- Context models show how a system that is being modeled is positioned in an environment with other systems and processes. They help define the boundaries of the system to be developed.
- Use case diagrams and sequence diagrams are used to describe the interactions between user the system being designed and users/other systems. Use cases describe interactions between a system and external actors; sequence diagrams add more information to these by showing interactions between system objects.
- Structural models show the organization and architecture of a system. Class diagrams are used to define the static structure of classes in a system and their associations.
- Behavioral models are used to describe the dynamic behavior of executing system. This can be modeled from the perspective of the data processed by the system or by the events that stimulate responses from a system.
- Activity diagrams may be used to model the processing of data, where each activity represents one process step.
- State diagrams are used to model a system's behavior in response to internal or external events.
- Model-driven engineering is an approach to software development in which a system is represented as a set of models that can be automatically transformed to executable code.