# Architectural design

## Objectives

The objective of this chapter is to introduce the concepts of software architecture and architectural design. When you have read the chapter, you will:

- understand why the architectural design of software is important;
- understand the decisions that have to be made about the system architecture during architectural design process;
- have been introduced to the idea of architectural patterns, well-tried ways of organizaing system architectures, which can be reused in system designs;
- know the architectural patterns that are often used in different types of application system, including transaction processing systems and language processing systems.

## KEY POINTS

- A software architecture is a description of how a software system is organized. Properties of system such as performance, security, and availability are influenced by the architecture used.
- Architectural design decisions include decisions on the type of application, the distribution of the system, the architectural styles to be used, and the ways in which the architecture should be documented and evaluated.
- Architectures may be documented from several different perspectives or views. Possible views include a conceptual view, a logical view, a process view, a development view, and a physical view.
- Architectural patterns are a means of reusing knowledge about generic architectures. They describe the architecture, explain when it may be used, and discuss its advantages and disadvantages.
- Commonly used architectural patterns include Model-View-Controller, Layered Architecture, Repository, Client-server, and Pipe and Filter.
- Generic models of application systems architectures help us understand the operation of applications, compare applications of the same type, validation application system designs, and assess large-scale components for reuse.
- Transaction processing systems are interactive systems that allow information in a database to be remotely accessed and modified by a number of users. Information systems and resource management systems are examples of transaction processing systems.
- Language processing systems are used to translate texts from on language into another and to carry out the instructions specified in the input language. They include a translator and an abstract machine that executes the generated language.