# Design and implementation

## Objectives

The objectives of this chapter are to introduce object-oriented software design using the UML and highlight important implementation concerns. When you have read this chapter, you will:

- understand the most important activities in a general, object-oriented design process;
- understand some of the different models that may be used to document and object-oriented design;
- know about the idea of design patterns and how these are a way of reusing design knowledge and experience;
- have been introduced to key issues that have to be considered when implementing software, including software reuse and open-source development.

## KEY POINTS

- Software design and implementation are interleaved activities. The level of detail in the design depends on the type of system being developed and whether you are using a plan-driven or agile approach.
- The process of object-oriented design includes activities to design the system architecture, identify objects in the system, describe the design using different object models, and document the component interfaces.
- A range of different models may be produced during an object-oriented design process. These include static models (class models, generalization models, association models) and dynamic models (sequence models, state machine models).
- Component interfaces must be defined precisely so that other objects can use them. A UML interface stereotype may be used to define interfaces.
- When developin software, you should always consider the possibility of reusing existing software, either as components, services, or complete systems.
- Configuration management is the process of managing changes to an evolving software system. It is essential when a team of people are cooperating to develop software.
- Most software development is host-target development. You use an IDE on a host machine to develop the software, which is transferred to a target machine for execution.
- Open source development involves making the source code of a system publicly available. This means that many people can propose changes and improvements to the software.