# Software testing

## Objectives

The objective of this chapter is to introduce software testing and software testing processes. When you have read the chapter, you will:

- understand the stages of testing from testing, during development to acceptence testing by customers;
- have been introduced to techniques that help you choose test cases that are geared to discovering program defects;
- understand test-first development, where you design tests before writing code and run these tests automatically;
- know the important differences between component, system, and release testing and be aware of user testing processes and techniques.

## KEY POINTS

- Testing can only show the presence of errors in a program. It cannot demonstrate that there are no remaining faults.
- Development testing is the responsibility of the software development team. A separate team should be responsible for testing a system before it is released to customers. In the user testing process, customers or system users provide test data and check that tests are successful.
- Development testing includes unit testing, in which you test individual objects and methods; component testing, in which you test individual objects and methods; component testing, in which you test related groups of objects; and system testing, in which you test partial or complete systems.
- When testing software, you should try to 'break' the software by using experience and guidelines to choose types of test cases that have been effective in discovering defects in other systems.
- Wherever possible, you should write automated tests. The tests are embedded in a program that can be run every time a chage is made to a system.
- Test-first development in an approach to development where tests are written before the code to be tested. Small code changes are made and the code is refactored until all tests execute successfully.
- Scenario testing is useful because it replicates the pratical use of the system. It involves inventing a typical usage scenario and using this to derive test cases.
- Acceptance testing is a user testing process where the aim is to decide if the software is good enough to be deployed and used in its operational environment.