# Software evolution

## Objectives

The objectives of this chapter are to explain why software evolution is an important part of software engineering and to describe software evolution processes. When you have read this chapter, you will:

- understand that changes is inevitable if software systems are to remain useful and that software development and evolution may be integrated in a spiral model;
- understand software evolution processes and influences on these processes;
- have learned about different types of software maintenance and the factors that affect maintenance costs; and
- understand how legacy systems can be assessed to decide whether they should be scrapped, maintained, reengineered, or replaced.

## KEY POINTS

- Software development and evolution can be thought of as an integrated, iterative process that can be represented using a spiral model.
- For custom systems, the costs of software maintenance usually exceed the software development costs.
- The process of software evolution is driven by requests for changes and includes change impact analysis, release planning, and change implementation.
- Lehman's laws, such as the notion that change is continuous, describe a number of insights derived from long-term studies of system evolution.
- There are three types of software maintenance, namely bug fixing, modifying the software to work in a new environment, and implementing new or changed requirements.
- Software reengineering is concerned with restructuring and redocumenting software to make it easier to understand and change.
- Refactoring, making small program changes that preserve functionality, can be thought of as preventative maintenance.
- The business value of a legacy system and the quality of the application software and its environment should be assessed to determine whether the system should be replaced, transformed, or maintained.