# Introduction to Software Engineering

My aim in this part of the book is to provide a general introduction to software engineering. I introduce important concepts such as development activities, from initial software specification through to system evolution. The chapters in this part have been designed to support a one-semester course in software engineering.

Chapter 1 is a general introduction that introduces professional software engineering and defines some software engineering concepts. I have also written a brief discussion of ethical issues in software engineering. I think that it is important for software engineers to think about the wider implications of their work. This chapter also introduces three case studies that I use in their work. This chapter also introduces three case studies that I use in the book, namely a system for managing records of patients undergoing treatment for mental health problems, a control system for a portable insulin pump and a wilderness weather system.

Chapter 2 and 3 cover software engineering processes and agile development. In Chapter 2, I introduce commonly used generic software process models, such as waterfall model, and I discuss use basic activities that are part of these processes. Chapter 3 supplements this with a discussion of agile development methods for software engineering. I mostly use Extreme Programming as an example of an agile method but also briefly introduce Scrum in this chapter.

The remainder of the chapters in this part are extended descriptions of the software process activities that will be introduced in Chapter 2. Chapter 4 covers the critically important topic of requirements engineering, where the requirements for a system should do are defined. Chapter 5 introduces system modeling using the UML, where I focus on the use of case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, and state diagrams for modeling a software system. Chapter 6 introduces architectural design and I discuss the importance of architecture and the use of architectural patterns in software design.

Chapter 7 introduces object-oriented design and the use of design patterns. I also introduce important implementation issues here - reuse, configuration management, and host-target development and discuss open source development. Chapter 8 focuses on software testing from unit testing during system development to the testing of software releases. I also discuss the use of test-driven development - an approach pioneered in agile methods but which has wide applicability. Finally, Chapter 9 presents an overview of software evolution issues. I cover evolution processes, software maintenance, and legacy system management.